   Welcome to EliteMUD. You have wisely chosen to embark on a great adventure
with EliteMUD, and to keep this MUD great the immortals of Elite ask you to
keep our rules in mind. Entering the command "policy" will inform you of the
Ten Commandments of Elite. Breaking these is punishable by jail time, freezing,
or at worst deletion. Keeping the rules in mind leads to a better experience
for everyone.

   EliteMUD is unlike any other MUD. It has sixteen classes and fifteen
races. All of the classes practice at the standard four guilds: Warrior, Thief,
Cleric, and Mage. Go to the guild which best suits your class. If you are not
allowed in, go to another guild to see if you are a member there. From the
Temple of Midgaard, the Warrior Guild is two south, two east, and one
south. The Mage Guild is two south, two west, and one south. The Cleric Guild
is one south and one west. The Thief Guild is three south, one east, and one
south. In your guild use your practice sessions to improve your abilities. To
receive a list of what you may practice and how many sessions you have, type
"practice" when standing next to your guildmaster. The different spells and
skills which appear are explained in depth in the help files. Enter "help
<skill>" to check what a skill does.

   Once you have practiced you need to learn how to get where you want to go
more effectively. EliteMUD has a system known as "speedwalk". If you know the
directions to your destination, you may enter them as one command, on one
line. This is done like this: instead of saying that "the Warrior Guild is two
south, two east, and one south", you may say that "the Warrior Guild is 2s2es."
Entering 2s2es at the Temple will take you to the Warrior Guild.

   There are three places in Midgaard that are necessary for good equipment:
the Donation Room, the Armory, and the Weapon Shop. In the Armory and the
Weapon Shop you purchase better weapons and armor. At any shop, the command
"list" will show you what is for sale, the prices, and the minimum level for
use ("minlvl"). "Buy <name>" lets you purchase anything you have the money for,
and "sell <name>" lets you sell anything the shopkeeper has the money for and
is interested in. If you do not have the money, the Donation Room is the place
to be. In the Don Room, as the Donation Room is known, equipment which others
do not want is left for any taker. It is not friendly to take all of the
equipment in the Don Room. Take only what you need and can use. If you have
equipment which you no longer want, the command "donate <item>" is
helpful. Also, use "sacrifice <item>" to sacrifice the item to the gods. These
last two commands are commonly shortened to "don" and "sac". A word of warning:
occasionally, an donated item i s sacrificed. This is the will of the gods, so
if an item is valuable do not donate it. Instead give it to a friend or sell
it.
   
   After you have practiced your skills and acquired eq, it is time to gain
experience points, or xp. The best place for a newbie to kill is the
Catacombs. These are directly below the Temple. Go down from the temple and
explore. Use your weapons and magic to kill the evil beasts in the
Catacombs. Doing so will give you xp, and you will "level" if you kill enough
times. When you level you gain hit points, mana, movement points, and practice
sessions. Use the practice sessions you have gained and learn more skills and
spells. If all the monsters in the Catacombs are dead, wander around Midgaard
and attempt to kill weak monsters such as beastly fidos or beggars.

   There are three levels which are of great note. Gaining level 2 enables you
to use the public channels. Chat and gossip are the general channels. Auction
is used if you have an item for sale, or if there is an item you want and are
willing to pay for. Grat is used when someone announces a great achievement,
such as making a level. Finally there are yell and shout. These channels are
considered annoying and should be used sparingly. Shout also drains 20 movement
points from you every time you use it.
   
   Level 5 allows you to start a new religious life. Worship is more than a
social on EliteMUD. Once you have made level five you may worship any deity of
your choice. A deity is someone who is above level 100. "help worship" outlines
the worship system in greater detail.

   Level 10 is the beginning of a whole new experience. Upon achieving level 10
you may apply for a clan. Clans are groups of friends who help each
other. Every clan varies from another, so choose wisely the clan that will fit
you the best. Enter "clan help" for greater information on clans, and "clan
info #" for information on a specific clan.

   The greatest resource of the wise player is the help files. If there is
anything you do not understand, check the help files, and if they are not
covered there, ask someone. EliteMUD is about having fun, and the immortals are
doing their best to help you have fun.
